chicken tikka masala the great classic
of North Indian restaurants in the UK
and us frankly it's a dish that I think
is best left to those restaurants it's a
huge pain to make at home that is unless
you have some leftover homemade tandoori
chicken around as we established in our
previous video linked in the description
tandoori chicken is very easy to make at
home and just as good as the restaurant
product so I say when you make it make
twice as much as you need have tandoori
chicken one night and then a few nights
later throw your leftovers into a curry
it's a natural synergy and it makes this
amazing dish a breeze to do at home
first thing to consider though is the
rice with a saucy dish like this you
really do want a starch to soak it all
up you want aged basmati rice arguably
the only white rice that actually tastes
like something I'm just gonna make a
whole 1 pound package that's a little
more than 2 cups
honestly I think you can skip this step
but if you want a restaurant type
product you gotta wash the rice you just
pour in some water and swish it around
with your fingers and dump the water out
and repeat pour in some water swish it
all around maybe you rinse with a little
bit more water and pour it out what
we're doing is dissolving and rinsing
away the outer starch coat on these
grains if you don't do this the cooked
rice will be kind of clumpy instead of
fluffy which frankly I'm not convinced
is a bad thing but if you want nice
individual grains you got to do this a
bunch of times until the water is at
least starting to go clear you pour the
water out for the last time then dump
the wet rice into a pan the basic water
to rice ratio is 2 to 1 but these grains
are already holding some water so you
got to account for that
I'm pouring in 3 and 3/4 cups water into
what was originally like 2 and 1/4 cups
of dry rice and I'll do like a heaping
teaspoon of salt for all of that but
that's really to taste I'm just getting
the salt evenly dissolved then tradition
calls for us to simply let this soak for
a half-hour I honestly don't think that
makes a very big difference I think it
probably evolved mostly as a fuel saving
measure it shortens the cooking time but
I'll let it sit there until I'm ready to
start cooking the curry let me just turn
this guy off I hate his voice sounds
like a know-it-all doesn't he hey check
out this new Bluetooth speaker I've been
using when I cook
the commuter speaker from Cove the
sponsor of this video whom I shall now
take a brief moment to thank this thing
is awesome I don't know at what point in
my life I settled for tiny terrible
speakers back before the days of
smartphones
everybody had stereos with beautiful
sound well now you can have beautiful
sound again with this the commuter
speaker syncs up really easily to your
phone and then I can listen to podcasts
nice and loud when I'm cooking welcome
to the greatest generation Deep Space
nine it's a Star Trek podcast and get
this it's water-resistant so if I
splatter some sauce on it I can wipe it
off no worries it's got this big tactile
volume knob on top and then you just
swipe left or right to go through a
playlist battery life is great up to
eight hours and it's got a normal mode
and a bass mode I use the normal mode
for pod it makes voices ring really
clearly and there's no boom when I want
boom I can turn the bass on for say
music hey check out that guy on
soundcloud he sounds real good and you
should check out the commuter speaker
from Cove because its 65% off if you use
my offer code that code and the link are
down in the description alright I'll let
this guy get back to talking about food
so with your rice soaking you can turn
to your chicken here's half a batch of
tandoori chicken legs from the last
video got to pull the meat off in chunks
and I highly recommend doing this with
your hands not a knife your hands can
tell the difference between a delicious
hunk of meat and a gross glob of
cartilage your knife cannot tell that
difference you could cut these into
further chunks but I like to leave them
as is my favorite Indian place in the
world is called Mela it's in Boston and
they always have big identifiable shreds
and chunks of leg and thigh meat in
their curries yes chicken tikka is
technically a kebab but I think that a
lot of restaurants actually use chicken
tikka masala as a way of getting rid of
leftover tandoori chicken and chicken
tikka is basically the same stuff it's
just chicken marinated and yogurt and
spices and cooked at very high heat same
stuff just boneless and on a skewer only
other prep as you can see is to just
take a big onion and chop it up nothing
fancy just get it into little pieces
okay big pan on high heat I'll also get
the rice started at this point high heat
until it comes to a boil you could put
some oil on the pan but I've got some
ghee Indian clarified butter do not use
whole but
burn use oil if you don't have this then
in the onion goes really blasting it on
high heat I want to get some deep
roasted flavor out of the onion they're
filled with water those pieces they will
not burn as long as you keep them moving
okay after a couple of minutes you got
some color on them I think it's time to
toast the spices this is the leftover
homemade masala from the last video you
could just use prepackaged garam masala
about two tablespoons I'd say move that
around and let it toast I'd lower the
heat to medium at this point big squeeze
of tomato paste goes in a couple of
tablespoons at least without the tomato
paste the flavor is just kind of flat
you need it for acidity and intensity
maybe a tablespoon of Kashmiri chilli
powder this is the secret ingredient it
gives you that beautiful red color with
a nice mild heat use more if you want it
hotter if you can't get Kashmiri chilli
powder use paprika for color and cayenne
for heat and I feel like I'm forgetting
something
I don't know anyway when you're
terrified everything is gonna burn a
good quality 28 ounce can of crushed
Tomatoes goes in deglaze with that oops
our rice is boiling over which means
it's time to reduce the heat to low let
it simmer about 15 minutes it'll be done
oh I know what I forgot ginger garlic
paste peel and grate your own if you
want to but I always just buy it bottled
at the Indian grocery a few big
spoonfuls of that I should have put that
into fry right before I put in the
tomatoes but it probably won't matter
because we're gonna fry the tomatoes and
therefore everything in them I think the
key to this dish is to cook the tomato
sauce down pretty aggressively stirring
it constantly so it doesn't burn nice
wide pan so we get plenty of evaporation
and ten minutes later enough water has
boiled out that it's really caramelizing
oh hey the rice is done just turn the
heat off leave it covered now is when
you put in the cream I did like half a
cup there which is conservative I don't
like it too rich and then there's the
ingredients that eluded me for a long
time water a lot of water maybe two cups
enough to make the texture light and
smooth I know it seems crazy we just
spent all that time and effort reducing
the water out of the tomatoes but we did
that so that we could caramelize them
and develop flavor not because we want a
dry finished product don't worry this
stuff is very intensely flavored it is
not going to taste diluted give it a
taste it needs salt
and needs the other secret ingredient
sugar at least a tablespoon this is
totally what they do at the restaurant
it is essential to get that classic
taste now this is when a lot of
restaurants would strain this if you
want that silky smooth finished texture
you got a strain out the solids and dump
them but that strikes me as a restaurant
nicety that has no place in the home
that beautiful smoky grilled tandoori
chicken goes in it's fully cooked you're
just warming it back up again and at
this point I can make a final judgement
on texture I wanted to add some more
water to loosen it up some more
look at that glossy rich roasted sweet
sour umami it has all the flavors a
little rice on the plate chicken and
sauce go on the side or on top you do
you and because I'm one of those people
who genetically does not perceive
cilantro as tasting like soap I will
rain down a heavy carpet of beautiful
green leaves and that tastes not like a
suitable substitute for the restaurant
product that tastes like the restaurant
product there's tons of leftovers to
tandoori chicken the first night tikka
masala the next night it is as natural
to the home kitchen as it is delicious
you gotta try it